Hey.
Yeah?
Come with me for a sec.
Don't do a double take.
C-Come with you? For what?
Blocking practice.
You're allowed to do other things
than be ball boy if we're
practicing on our own, right?
I'm not going to force you—
Tsukki's joining in!
Thanks for joining in.
All right!
Why don't you put those away first?
Oh.
Haikyu!!
Episode 04: "Take It Easy"
Man...
I feel so much better when
there's someone I know around.
Broccoli #1.
And #2.
He's been hard to get along with since
the summer training camp, but...
What is he even thinking?
You guys at Karasuno beat Shiratorizawa,
and you're going to nationals, right?
Yeah.
That's awesome.
My team lost a full set at the finals.
I was sure we'd win, too.
Hey.
Sakusa!
I haven't seen the video yet,
but why did Shiratorizawa lose?
Was Wakatoshi-kun not at his best?
He seemed to be playing his best to me.
What?
Then why the hell did he lose?
How did you manage that?
Did someone actually manage
to stop Wakatoshi-kun?
Yeah... They did.
Though in Hinata's case,
it was basically a receive...
Who was it? What year? What's their name?
What junior—
Sorry about that!
He's as negative as you can get.
He has to know everything about anyone
who could be a threat to him.
I'm not negative. I'm just cautious.
You haven't actually gotten serious
yet, have you, Sakusa-san?
What makes you say that?
It's just a feeling.
I mean, you're way more normal than what
I'd imagined you'd be like, so far.
Right now, he thinks his shoulders
aren't doing so great.
Though in his case, it's
usually just in his head.
I guess there's nothing bad about
being cautious about that.
Bath time.
Already?
I'm taking one before anyone else
can fill the tub with their germs.
Sorry to bug you guys!
Man, that scared me!
I can't believe you called one of
the top three in Japan "normal!"
I said he seems normal so far.
Everyone here's crazy good.
Especially him.
I wonder who he is.
But you know, this training camp...
It's weird that we're even holding it.
I think Washijo-sensei's trying to change.
If he wasn't, he wouldn't have given
a second thought to this camp
and he wouldn't have allowed you to be
the primary instructor, Anabara-senpai.
Washijo-sensei has been a bit different
ever since we played Karasuno.
Seafood Crispy Yakisoba | Ham Katsu | French Fries
Oyster Miso Soup | Fried Oysters | Steamed Oysters | Half Shell Raw Oysters
Oysters
Is he worried about Karasuno's #10?
Well, he definitely knows that he exists.
When Karasuno's #10 scored the
final point in the finals,
Washijo-sensei's face...
was rather unforgettable.
Of course, he obviously seemed upset,
but at the same time...
Thanks for waiting!
Here're your raw oysters!
They're finally here!
Hey, don't eat too much.
Remember the teacher who got sick off
of oysters when we were in high school?
And then we had to keep practicing
on our own the next day, right?
That sure takes me back.
Left!
You're not a libero, Hinata-kun?
Huh? Do I actually look like a libero?
Do I look like I'm good at receiving?!
Er, not really?
Oh, is that so?!
I'll block, too.
Two middle blockers?!
If you're going to spike, I'm gonna
stuff it right back in your face.
Ooh, me, too!
Seriously?!
I believe
it's my turn
I'll stop you!
Yeah!
Damn it. Am I the shortest now?
Great shot!
That was someone's fault
for leaving the edge open.
The line shot was wide open.
Well, I was positive that he
was going to do a cross shot!
Yeah.
I also thought that was
going to be a cross shot.
He even angled his approach like
he was going to do a cross shot.
He really is good.
I heard this guy hasn't been
playing volleyball that long,
but he's from Date Tech.
I guess I shouldn't be surprised
that he's not jumping randomly.
Hey, Tsukishima.
Could it be that
you were just saying you
wanted to practice blocking
so I can have a chance to spike?
Nope.
Right. Of course not.
Once we start playing against those
high-level teams at nationals
Yura!
the tactics between the blockers and spikers
are going to become even more complex.
Yes?
I'll toss next!
Okay.
Setting tactics aside,
I can't deny the fact that Hinata is a
spiker that can actually see the blockers.
Of course I'm going to
practice against that.
Got it!
Nice kill!
You don't need to focus so
hard on hitting a target
if you're just going to
pass right over the net.
Yes, sir.
Setter, you can stand a little
further away from the net.
Yes, sir!
Nice kill!
Kageyama...
He didn't have any problem syncing together
with that left-handed middle blocker.
His technique and instinct
are both wonderful.
How was that?
I think I could hit it faster.
Could you make it a bit
more compact and zippy?
Got it.
It's terrifying that this kid can agree to
that so quickly and actually follow through.
Um... Could you keep passing like that?
Got it.
I'm pretty sure Kageyama's not
the best at communicating,
but you can tell that
he's definitely trying.
Front! Front!
Nice!
Left!
Talk about a high jump...
Great job. That was right on the end line.
Make sure you're properly stretching.
Hey.
Have you seen me before?
Yeah, since I came here.
That's not what I meant!
I'm asking you if you've seen
any of my games before.
No.
Someone's trying to pick a
fight with Kageyama again.
I see...
Then be more scared of me! Be surprised!
You've just been staring at me like,
"Huh..." ever since you saw me!
Usually people underestimate
me because of my height...
And then freak out when they see my skills!
That's how this is usually supposed to work!
And apparently there's another
annoying guy to put up with.
You do freak me out.
But...
You're a great reference, too.
What?!
Wow, you've got guts.
That guy's a setter and second-year...
Miya Atsumu.
I actually thought you were gonna
be pretty prickly at first,
but on the court...
You're a Goody Two-Shoes, aren't ya?
What?
Haikyu!!
Here's your drink!
Thanks.
Huh? Where's my...
Here's your towel!
Oh, that's right! I put it over there.
Thanks!
You sure are observant, Shoyo.
Whoops, it really went
up there. I'll go get—
I'll go get it!
Thanks.
Watching them play from up
here is my thing lately.
Kunimi's receives look like Ushiwaka's.
He doesn't make any
unnecessary movements, either.
Hyakuzawa!
Someone get that!
Or maybe he just doesn't want to move...
He totally just watched it fall.
Come on! Let's take this seriously!
You totally could've gotten that!
We're playing together with guys
we can't play with usually!
Let's go all-out!
Kunimi Akira (15)
Least favorite phrase #2:
Least favorite phrase #2: "Go all out."
Uh... Sorry about that.
I promise that he does try sometimes.
Come on, Kunimi! You should've
gone after that one!
Sure.
All right. Go get rehydrated
and we'll do 2-on-2 drills.
I don't like that guy.
You mean Kunimi?
Everyone here is doing their best,
so why's he so unmotivated?
He likes to conserve his energy,
and then gets super serious in the
latter half when it's hard to deal with.
But I mean, he should go
after any balls he can get.
Right?! He's taking it way too easy!
Taking it easy, huh...
2-on-2, huh?
These drills are the roughest.
Yeah, because if there's only two of
us, we have to keep moving nonstop.
But the one who has it the hardest
is that guy over there, since
he has the least experience.
I don't want to be that guy,
but I'd rather not be with
the guy who's two meters tall.
Yeah. He's tall, but his technique
is still junior high level.
It's hard trying to pick up after him.
Gather round!
The rules are the same.
When you're spiking, no dinking allowed.
First to get ten points wins.
I know I've said this before, but
always think about your next move.
You're not going to be able to win
this if you're half-assing it.
Yes, sir!
Kunimi | Kawashita        Kindaichi | Koganegawa
Got it!
Damn it...
Screw you! Screw you, Kunimi!
Whenever they do 2-on-2s, Kunimi's
team is always really strong.
He really is talented, and I think he's
always observing who he's playing with.
But I wonder what it is.
That's not the only thing...
It feels like his team has more time.
Got it!
He's really staring at me...
Hyakuzawa!
This feeling of being left
further and further behind...
I can tell that my playing is getting worse.
Since there are only two of us, it's hard
to do any kind of complicated attack.
So you just need to watch the other
guy and pounce on his mistakes.
And... I know that I'm
making a bunch of mistakes.
But just realizing that...
isn't going to magically
make me be able to keep up.
Ugh...
I can't wait for this 2-on-2
to hurry up and be over!
Hyakuzawa | Oda        Shibata | Yura
Here's your water.
I wish you were the one
invited here instead of me...
How stupid can I be?! He obviously
feels that way more than anyone else!
He's a starter for a powerhouse team,
and everyone here who's been up against him
is watching his every move.
Unlike me, who just happens to be here,
he's the kind of guy who makes
people want to pick him.
Hey, now.
You mean you wish it was me and you
who got invited here together, right?
Everyone who's been invited here's
pretty amazing in one way or another,
and I mean, you're super huge and tall.
And I admit... Without Kageyama,
I'm just a little...
Emphasis on the "little"...
Inconvenienced, and can't quite
display everything I've got...
But even then...
But I'm just huge.
Hey! What do you mean, "just"?!
Do you... Do you realize
how cool two meters is?!
If I could pick between having a killer
serve and being two meters tall right now,
I'd definitely pick being two meters tall!
I mean, I can always work on my serve, but
there's nothing I can do about my height!
Anyway!
Being two meters tall is the bestest...
The most ultimate...
The most amazingly awesome
super talent there is!
Cheering up a rival? You must be confident.
The heck are you talking about?!
I'm chewing him out!
Yeah, I'm pretty sure you're cheering him up.
Really?
I mean, I guess that's fine in the end.
What good does it do you to cheer me up?
Lots! I mean...
I wanna beat you.
Hey, there's something that I noticed,
since I was watching you guys play.
Could you try something for me?
I won't be able to do anything
that requires a lot of technique.
It's super easy! I'm sure
you'll be able to do it!
Hyakuzawa | Kuroishi             Kunimi | Nagamatsu
Make the last hit!
Front! Front!
The back...
is wide open!
He can actually reach that?
Let's take it easy, Hyakuzawa!
It's so simple and trivial.
But it's also really easy to
forget in a chaotic match.
Volleyball is a sport where you
can't hold the ball or let it drop.
But when you or your
teammates are out of sorts,
you can always try to
make time for yourselves.
And when you deliberately
take it easy and pass...
Got it!
The teammate you're passing it
to gets to take it easy, too.
I won't be able to do anything
that requires a lot of technique.
It's super easy! I'm sure
you'll be able to do it!
All you have to do is make the
first pass as high as possible.
Like Kunimi does.
Just by doing that, the fast and stressful
rhythm of the game will get a little easier.
And just by getting your
rhythm back a little, then...
Hit it over!
You'll be able to do all sorts of things!
There's no way I can win head-to-head
with a giant that's two meters tall.
Hyakuzawa | Kuroishi
Man, you're so big! I'm so jealous, damn it!
Hey, Hyakuzawa!
Nice kill, hey!
Kunimi | Tsukishima           Oda | Kawashita
Now there's another one staring at me...
All right, go ahead, do your
stretches and head on out.
Yes, sir!
Episode 5: "Hunger"
Next time: "Hunger."